---
title: "Why most ai discussions are dumb"
excerpt: "Over some years, I have always been bewildered by the shallowness of non academical discussions around AI. Here are some ideas."
category: "AI"
---
When you here about AI you only here one side of the story. people that speak about it in the way you are able to here and on the topics you want to know about ( yourself) are almost always wrong, mixing anthropomorphising, historical backgrounds and their self intellectualisation of a subject that is in essence, non of the above. Here what is AI. 

But first, here what is conscioussness: as also it is something that is polluted by antrhopomorphism but also a monotheist culture that throught centuries tried to give a sense to the attrocities it commited by defining an order in things related to counsciousness. only white europeans were counscious.By the power of our mind. such a lie was believable despite the complete non sense it was in everydays facts. Today we still suffer from this imposed non sense that is religion on our views and understanding of many things in the world. Counsciousness included. The first question is what was our view before anyone tried to use the notion of counsciouness to justify our actions? looking at pre historical beloef around the world, the same belief is present everywhere. animism. everything is almost as conscious as we are. and counsciouness is a process similar to the wind, the river, and everything else. there is a connection in the world. a continuum. one was not defined by his identity from the day it was bron till the day he died. 
This may be closer to the truth than what most humanity believes today. and empirical resutls tends to prove it. counsciousness is now mainly diregarded by neuroscientist and AI researchers to be unscientific (mean it means nothing real and is a made up concept not even shared by everyone). Self seems also to be as inconsistent as it is false. you are not the person you were and not the person you will be.

But if counsciouness and self are illusion. why is that I am able to do what I do and a rock isn’t ? why is that my computer, despite its raw computational power, doesn’t seem to be able to do what I am able to do (and you are not able to do what he is able to do either - and it may be part of the answer here) ?

Well a concept here for the difference between humans and birds and rocks and water earth and well any system one could think of, might be that they all lie on a continuum, a continuum as relative as distances and speed but a continuum still. this continuum however complex might be called IRA is how a system is able to interact with its environement, reflect on it (perform computational processes) and act on it. how one can defined such concept. well the only way it seems is to define it with information. input, processing, output. for that statistics, physics and information theory might help. (especially concepts of correlation, entropy, bits, signal)
the input signal to the system needs to be high in information content ( needs to have a high entropy) the processing, or what happens inside the system needs to be correlated to the input. Moreover the particles interacting within the system need to do so in a correlated maner. they need to have a high entropy. finally the output action can be determined in how much one could change the information content of its environment. moving the environment (moving itself within it ..well its relative) moving objects within it etc.
please mind that this is not a formula for consciousness (we said stop we it) it is just building blocks that are essential to explain really the main distinction between objects to which we attribute different lvls of cognition. Moreover those three condition might interact in many complex ways. the reflexion needs to be a closed system (but this is implicit here).  

Still a computer score quite high on an IRA, thought is not much of an help if there is no software running on it. this is true. it seems that, for humans the software is encoded in the substrat of the computation while the computer is a general processing machine able to receive any software. if you will, it is a generalization of IRA. a computer can define some computation power to create an artifical environment and attribute the I / A value it wants to it. or it can define many R with any value it wants. it can or not correlated its bits. or use them to do something completly different. it could recreate a human brain, or it could recreate a chimpanzee brain, or it could recreate earth or an abstract 35 Dimensional non hilbert spaces or anything really. 

So then, if there is a software that powers ourselves from computers in way that is scientifically distinguishable what is it. well take an infine 2D space(well in reality it is not 2D). image it represents any possible softwares. then, on this spaces there is the software to solve any mathematical problem, the sofware to understand everything about ourselves and the software that describe one’s cognition. then, around this point, there is a gigantic subspace that defines all possible cognition leading to an R value that is really high. within it there is one defining all the possible cognition life on earth has created (amongs species with a cortex say). hey there is a small subspace there that will (except some bad accident happens to you) represent your cognition and its variation through time with the change in your cellular efficiency, neuron configuration etc…

Having this point of view removes a lot of stupid looping questions. like what happens if you transfer your brain to a “machine” wow. like in its time, atheism removed a lot of loop questions such as “but if god is good why there is bad?” “if my neighbors sinned and he received a promotion… etc”. or at one point, past time travel create “what happen if I go back in time and kill myself” ( the similarity between all of those topics is that they lead to such unanswerable questions because they are fraudulent. When such things arise from a set of axioms, it means that the set of axiom is not a good one to reason about the world. 
Similarly here. now that we have a good set of axioms I hope that our reflexion about AI won’t be “oh damn it is going to take control” or “will it enslave us” etc… the question is : when we will have increasingly better AIs that will act as a reflect of our humanity, that will shade lights on questions we could not imagine and destroy our strongest assumptions about ourselves, will we be prepared, will we have the axioms to understand accept and control it? because what makes humanity grat is not its intelligence. but its number, and that is another level of IRA right here surely not reachable by the first super AI. 